Recently, [GitHub has opted to rename the “master” branch to
“main”](https://github.com/github/renaming). The given rationale for this is
that “master” is offensive to “some people”. The assumption is that the offense
is the term “master”'s use in slavery, i.e., “slave-master”.

The problem with this is that that's an extremely stupid, childish approach to
language. The term “master” has hundreds of meanings, all of which relate to
primacy, and only some of them to subordinance. Master's Degrees use the term,
it's reasonable to call someone good at git a git master, and someone less
accustomed to git might see these changes and complain “I haven't even mastered
git and now I'm going to have to get accustomed to new terminology”.

The problem with this change, and with similar Orwellian approaches to
“improving” language by banishing words that might cause offense, is that by
banning the word “master”, GitHub is insisting that that is the only valid
meaning of “master”. Those of us whose goal is to communicate clearly without
causing undue offense are ceding ground, and why? There are words that are
purely harmful, and have no meanings or understandings that aren't offensive,
but “master” doesn't fall into that category; it doesn't even come close, as
the vast majority of uses of the term do not evoke slavery. Indeed, I had to
dig a bit to even figure out that that was the reason. I always assumed,
sensibly, that “master” was named such like master tapes. Primacy, not
subordinance.

There *is* a master/slave idiom in computer systems, and I can completely
sympathize with the desire to remove that language. That is naming something by
metaphor to an abhorrent system. But, the “master” branch in git is not that.

Rather than fighting this linguistic bullying, I have a modest proposal for a
new name for the “master” branch. If they're going to insist that it refers to
subordinance—which it does not—then why not refer to a form of subordinance
that's less charged. Less offensive. More love, less hate.

I suggest that the replacement term for “master” should be “dom”. Personally, I
mentally expand this to “dominatrix”, but you may choose whichever expansion
tickles your fancy—or whatever part of you it tickles.

Naturally, in this naming convention, it is quite right to call branches
“subs”.

This naming convention retains the fundamental meaning that GitHub, in their
linguistically confused way, thought was conveyed with “master”, while carrying
none of the offensive baggage. Plus, it's sexually liberated and unrestrained.
... well, maybe restrained, but only in a consensual way!

Join me in renaming your “master” branches to avoid problematic language.

Join me in  naming your “master” branches “dom”.
